# cirrus-scan-portscan

CirrusScan check: Open Port Scanner

[CirrusScan](https://github.secureserver.net/appservices/CirrusScan) utilizes
[masscan](https://github.com/robertdavidgraham/masscan) to identify open ports
on targeted systems. This scan is performed using a container encapsulating the
logic required to evaluate the target environments, identify nonconformant ports,
and forward findings to
[Security Hub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/)
for presentation.

This scanner targets primarily non-AWS hosted environments (such as systems
located in an on-premise data center). Native AWS environments are more effectively
inspected using the
[ScoutSuite scanner](https://github.secureserver.net/appservices/cirrus-scan-scoutsuite),
which (among other things) evaluates AWS security group configuration instead of
generating live network traffic to target systems.

Refer to [docker/README.md](docker/README.md) for details on how to construct
and promote the container used for scanning. Note that all tailoring is
performed at container build time.

## Workflow

NOTE: Certain aspects of this description refer to planned future functionality
which have not been implemented.

Users can trigger vulnerability scans on their own account or on multiple
accounts, depending on their role and authorization.

A scan request must specify:

* An AWS LOB account. This account will be used to execute the ECS-based
  CirrusScan scanner instance; the account must be configured for Direct Connect
  in order to specify a scan source.

* A target. This may consist of one or more IPv4 CIDR specifications, or one or
  zone names. A zone will be translated into an equivalent list of subnets using
  CMDB queries performed by the scanner.

A scan request may specify:

* A default port template. The template specifies the set of permitted open ports
  for systems where the associated template cannot be retrieved from the CMDB
  (such as when an explicit CIDR target is provided and no CMDB lookup is
  performed). By default, no open ports are permitted.

* A source. This consists of one or more zone names; when present, the actual
  scan traffic will originate from an IPv4 address within the specified zone.
  The default source is `aws`, which means scan traffic will originate from the
  ECS-based CirrusScan task instance.

When a port scan is requested, the following activities take place:

1. CirrusScan will execute an ECS task in the specified AWS account to
   coordinate the scan.
2. If the target is specified by zone, the ECS task looks up the subnets
   associated with each zone and uses these as scan targets.
3. If a source is specified, the ECS task will provision an ephemeral
   OpenStack VM (if possible) or select a persistent scanner host (if necessary)
   located within the specified source zone. If multiple sources zones are
   specified, multiple scanner instances will be utilized. The special zone
   "aws" will cause the scanner to execute on the ECS task instance itself.
4. The masscan scanner will be invoked, using the target subnet list, at the
   desired source location(s).
5. Scan results will be transmitted to the ECS task instance (if the scanner was
   executed remotely).
6. Any ephemeral VMs created for the scan will be unprovisioned.
7. The raw data will be examined for nonconformances. For CMDB-assisted scans,
   responding IPv4 addresses will be matched to host CIs and then to a port
   template. If no lookup is made, or a template cannot be found, the default
   template specified by the request will be used.
8. A Security Hub finding will be generated for each open port which does not
   match the relevant template. Where available, this finding will be enriched
   with CI identification and the supporting ServiceNow oncall team.
9. CirrusScan libraries transparently correlate these findings with earlier
   observations, resulting in the automatic creation, update or archiving of
   Security Hub findings as appropriate. (CirrusScan subsequently forwards these
   findings to ServiceNow, opening or closing tickets as required.)
10. The ECS task instance stores output and status data in S3 for further review.
11. The ECS task terminates.

## Logging and Debugging

After launching a scan from API gateway, the requester may go to the ECS
dashboard from AWS console and verify that an ECS task named **portscan** is running.

Next, to find debugging logs from the container, go to Cloudwatch logs, and
filter logs by **/ecs/portscan**. You should see the debugging logs from the
portscan container in the most recent log stream. Please verify the last event time.
  
## Security Findings

By design, all portscan findings are created with severity **HIGH**.
Findings generated by this check can be found by applying following filters on
Security Hub:

* Record State _EQUALS_ ACTIVE
* ID _PREFIX_ portscan/
  
For any further assistance, please reach out to DL-AppSecurity@godaddy.com.
